# Design-and-Testing-Entropy-Sources-using-NIST-SP-800-90B-Standard
***Introduction***

Careful attention must be given to any interaction that occurs between 2 parties to guarantee that that interaction is secured. For both the sender and receiver to have a level of security needed to safeguard their communication to each other, a channel must be securely constructed. Generally, this is established by encrypting the signals which are being sent with an encryption algorithm, therefore when the signal arrives at the receiver, they decrypt the signal to receive the original plaintext message. Both the encryption and decryption algorithms rely upon the key to encrypt and decrypt the original message which the parties are exchanging. 
If an adversary or attacker gets or has access to the key, the attacker could easily decode the message the sender sent.Random keys are used to make it harder for attackers to guess, improving security. These random keys are often generated by RNGs (Random Number Generators). The more random the key, the better it protects the system from attacks. By using secure RNGs, we can create keys that are strong and unpredictable, which helps prevent security breaches.
**There are 2 types of Random Number Generators(RNG):
 1) **True RNG:** A True RNG uses a nondeterministic source to make randomness.
For this the computer must use some external physical variable that is unpredictable, such as at the quantum level, subatomic particles have completely random behaviour, making them ideal variables of an unpredictable system.
 2) **Pseudo RNG:** Software-generated numbers only are pseudorandom. They are not truly random because the computer uses an algorithm based on a distribution and are not secure because they rely on deterministic  predictable algorithms.
    
**DRDO is looking for Quantum RNG**. As quantum gives it a true property.They need a setup which can generate the Quantum Random Bitstring.
In DYSL-QT - They have a project of developing Quantum Random Number Generator. However, they must be sure that bitstrings are entirely random after they are generated.
To determine whether those bitsrings are truly random or not, there is a Randomness Test. DYSL-QT has executed over 150 Randomness Tests thus far.
Once the Bitstrings were found to be truly random by passing the Randomness test, my work started. I had to quantify the bitstring's randomness. Entropy is a useful metric to quantify it.

**Entropy -** Measure of randomness or disorder in a system.
Entropy of 1 - Fully random
Entropy of 0 -  Not at all random

**My part was developement and implementation of entropy**
Assume for the moment that I have written a function to determine the entropy of a bitsring with 20K bits. Thus, the bitstring's entropy value will be provided by this entropy estimation program.  Then a report will be generated after the test is completed saying "QRNG has successfully passed the test with this [entropy value]".
So how do we calculate the entropy ?

By entropy estimation methods:

**1)Maximum Entropy:**
Simply means when the entropy is maximum.

**2)Minimum Entropy:**
Measures the effectiveness of the strategy of guessing the most likely output of the entropy source.
The noise source is the root of security for the entropy source and for the RBG as a whole.
In my work, i estimated minimum-entropy for all the sequences, as in security applications such as cryptographic systems, its crucial to understand the worst case unpredictability. An attacker will target the most predictable events or sequences to exploit the system. Therefore, minimum-entropy provides an estimate of randomness ensuring that even the most likely events do not offer an easy target is the sequence has high minimum-entropy.

Now lets talk about noise source : This is the component that contains the non-deterministic, entropy-providing process that is ultimately
responsible for the uncertainty associated with the bitstrings output by the entropy source.

**Noise sources can be divided into two categories:**

1) **Physical noise sources:** They use dedicated hardware
to generate randomness.

2) **Non-physical noise sources:** They use system data (such as output of Application Programming Interface (API) functions, Random Access Memory (RAM) data or
system time) or human input (e.g., mouse movements) to generate randomness.

But there is one more factor to be considered before estimating entropy of sequence.
The estimators that are to be applied to a sequence depend on whether the data has been determined to be IID or non-IID. For IID data, the min-entropy estimation is determined in some ways, whereas for non-IID data, the procedures are different.
If every sample from a noise source has the same probability distribution as every other sample and every sample is mutually independent, then the samples are independent and identically distributed (IID). The entropy estimation procedure is made much simpler by the IID assumption. 
In cases where the IID assumption is not met, meaning that the samples are not independently distributed or identically distributed, or neither, estimating entropy becomes more challenging and necessitates the use of alternative techniques.

I included 11 codes for statistical tests in a different section to look for evidence that the samples are not IID.
And after that, I employed three techniques to estimate the minimum entropy for them.

**1)The Most Common Value Estimate**

**2)The Markov Estimate**

**3)The Compression Estimate**


